SNHU Travel Sprint Review and Retrospective

As Scrum Master for the SNHU Travel project, I want to first take time in this retrospective to acknowledge
the contributions from our entire team. To Christy, our Product Owner, for providing the Product Backlog and 
Backlog grooming as well as being available to answer questions our development team had in regards to the 
user stories. I would also like to acknowledge our Developer for taking those user stories and turning them 
into a usable product, such as when the code was written to create the user interface that showed the vacation 
packages in a slideshow. I would like to acknowledge the Tester for working closely with the Developer to 
produce a product that meets the user requirements. He was not only responsible for creating the acceptance 
criteria for each user story, but he was also responsible for updating that acceptance criteria if any changes 
were made by the Product Owner such as when the stakeholders decided they wanted the travel packages to be for 
wellness and detox vacations only. Finally, I would like to acknowledge my own role as the Scrum Master who 
was responsible for keeping the team following Scrum methodology. I organized most of the meetings and was 
also responsible for keeping those meetings, such as the Daily Stand-Up, on track.

A Scrum-agile approach helped each of the user stories come to completion because the user stories are able
to break a project down into reasonable chunks that can be completed in a Sprint cycle. Since agile embraces 
transparency, the use of user stories allows project progress to be easily visible either through the use of 
a whiteboard and sticky notes or a more elegant Information Radiator program. The user story also helps the 
team to understand what “done” looks like. For example, the user story to be able to limit search results 
based on price makes it clear that the product is expected to be able to run a search with the optional 
option of limiting that search based on a user-specified price.

The Scrum-agile approach also makes it easy for a project to change direction mid-development. The team for 
SNHU Travel experienced this when the client got wind that the next hottest thing was going to be wellness 
and detox vacations. In order for them to stay competitive and ahead of the game, they had to change the 
course of their project right away to meet consumer demand. Thankfully the scrum process made this relatively 
easy. The team came together for a meeting to discuss the new changes, and the Development team was able to 
keep the same coding framework they’d been using and just update the types of vacation packages that were 
being returned. Since the use of Sprints keeps the whole team focused on bite-sized amounts of the project 
rather than expecting to plan the whole thing from start to finish, very little time was lost in needing to 
re-plan how the project was going to go.

Our team was able to communicate effectively with one another both with face-to-face communication and through 
email. Our team had decided early on that we were going to have our meetings face-to-face unless unforeseen 
circumstanced prevented it. While we did not require our Product Owner to be at every meeting, we did require 
her to be available when needed for clarification. This was especially important when she was announcing to 
our team that SNHU Travel wished to focus solely on wellness and detox vacation packages. We made sure to have
this as an in-person meeting so that she could immediately answer questions from our team. Additionally, 
Christy as the Product Owner did a great job keeping in communication with stakeholders about what they wanted 
from the booking system. This helped our Development team create a great product.

Some tools that helped make our team successful were the Daily Stand-up meetings, the use of an information 
radiator, and the use of code examples from the client. The Daily Stand-Ups allowed for consistent, daily 
communication that is integral to the Scrum process. It helped keep our team on track because we were able to 
share the things we had accomplished from the previous day, what we were planning to accomplish that day, 
and what road blocks were standing in our way. The last part especially helped to have in-person because other
team members were able to speak up and provide assistance to areas where others were struggling. The 
information radiator Jira was easier for our team to use and the traditional white board with sticky notes 
because the platform could be accessed anywhere and allowed the whole team to stay up-to-date. This was 
particularly important to our Product Owner since she was not required to be at every meeting and therefore 
would not have seen the progress made if a traditional approach had been taken. Finally, our team reached out 
to the Product Owner for clarification on how they wanted the user platform to look. We were presented with 
a .zip file containing a sample already coded of what the client was envisioning. This really helped our team
because it couldn’t have been made any clearer what our client was wanting. This might not have happened in 
a waterfall method because there isn’t usually communication between the development team and the client once 
the product has moved from planning to actual development.

The Scrum-agile approach does involve pros and cons that should be carefully considered. Some of the pros are 
that the client is more involved, more emphasis is placed on communication, there is flexibility in being able 
to adjust the project as it moves forward, and failure is considered a learning opportunity and a necessary 
part of the project. However, some cons are that the team had to be re-trained in this method which is costly 
for the company, it is harder to get a sense of how long and how expensive the project will be right at the 
outset of the project, and it can be hard to convince people to consistently meet face-to-face especially if 
they are used to online communication. In sum, though, I feel that SNHU Travel benefited from switching to 
the Scrum-agile method. This is mostly because of the switch to focusing on wellness and detox vacation 
packages. In a waterfall method, the client probably wouldn’t have been able to request this change of focus 
mid-project. However, since the agile method is based around flexibility and the need of the client, our team 
was able to accommodate the changes. Since SNHU Travel’s goal is to be cutting edge in the market, the ability 
to make this change to the vacation booking system helped ensure their continued success as a company.